---
permalink: /about/
title: "About Me"
---

I am a structural biochemist with eight years of postdoctoral
experience. I am passionate about the dynamics of multidomain proteins
and flexible protein regions.

I have modeled the conformational space sampled by MMP-1 in the
pre-collagenolytic steps and bound to a collagen analog using
paramagnetic NMR and integrative computational tools (Ph.D.). Also, I
have described protein-protein interactions in various systems, most
relevantly the interaction between the intrinsically disordered Unique
domains of SFK family members with their folded SH3 domains (postdoc U.
Barcelona). Overall, I have ten years of experience solving structural
biology unknowns related to protein dynamics and flexibility with
Nuclear Magnetic Resonance. Also, I have always been responsible for
preparing my samples using many heterologous expression and protein
purification protocols. Therefore, I can bridge and optimize processes
and human resources between sample preparation, data acquisition, and
computational modeling.

Since 2018, I have been developing analysis and modeling software,
focusing on computational optimization of numerical processes and
software architecture in Python. While at Dr. Forman-Kay's lab
(Toronto), I have developed a software infrastructure to model and
sample the conformational landscape of intrinsically disordered proteins
(work in preparation). Now at Dr. Alexandre Bonvin's group, I am leading
the development of the HADDOCK 3 docking infrastructure, the successor
of the HADDOCKv2 series - the world's largest protein docking software
with +26,000 users and +200,000 jobs run on the WeNMR/EGI grid since 2008.
I am highly knowledgeable in open-source software and best
practices for software distribution, maintenance, documentation, and
integration with the community. I have mentored students since my early
research years and participated in science-to-public outreach
activities.

Finally, I am a decade-long passionate mountaineer, climber, caver, and
scuba diver - activities that further solidified my capacity to lead,
manage high-pressure and life-risk situations, and coordinate and
collaborate in workgroups. You can find some of our outdoors activities
in our family blog -
[viviendomochileros.com](https://viviendomochileros.wordpress.com).
